Created documentation for command hooks feature (#3555)
aws-amplify/docs: src/pages/cli/usage/command-hooks.mdx

export const meta = {
  title: `Command Hooks`,

>   description: `Execute custom scripts before, during, and after Amplify CLI commands (“amplify push”, “amplify api gql-compile”, and more). This allows you to extend Amplify’s best-practice defaults to meet your organization’s specific security guidelines and operational requirements.`,

Reviewer: This seems a little verbose for the page description. I'd suggest just the first sentence here

Author: Keeping as is for SEO purposes. 
```suggestion
  description: `Execute custom scripts before, during, and after Amplify CLI commands (“amplify push”, “amplify api gql-compile”, and more).`,
```

};

Use Command Hooks to execute custom scripts before, during, and after Amplify CLI commands (“amplify push”, “amplify api gql-compile”, and more). This allows you to extend Amplify’s best-practice defaults to meet your organization’s specific security guidelines and operational requirements. 

## Adding a command hook

> Place your custom scripts in the `amplify/hooks` directory and set the script file name to the desired command with a pre or post designation. For example `post-add-function.js` will execute the script after `amplify add function`. For more information about the script naming convention, see [How to name command hook scripts](#how-to-name-command-hook-scripts). 

Reviewer 2: Can we also mention , hooks folder will get created when running amplify init with sample hooks

Author: Already mentioned below.

For this example, let's create a hook to ensure that a minimum major Amplify CLI version is used before deployment (`amplify push`).

> Let's add `pre-push.js` in the `amplify/hooks` drectory with the following contents. *Note: You need to create a `amplify/hooks` folder if your Amplify project was created prior to Amplify CLI version XYZ*

Reviewer: replace XYZ with 5.5.0

> Let's add `pre-push.js` in the `amplify/hooks` drectory with the following contents. *Note: You need to create a `amplify/hooks` folder if your Amplify project was created prior to Amplify CLI version XYZ*

Author: ```suggestion
Let's add `pre-push.js` in the `amplify/hooks` drectory with the following contents. *Note: You need to create a `amplify/hooks` folder if your Amplify project was created prior to Amplify CLI version 5.5.0*
```

```js
const fs = require("fs");
const parameters = JSON.parse(fs.readFileSync(0, { encoding: "utf8" }));

// Get the running Amplify CLI major verison number
const currentCLIMajorVersion = parameters.data.amplify.version.split('.')[0]
console.log('Amplify CLI major version: ', currentCLIMajorVersion)

const MINIMUM_MAJOR_AMPLIFY_CLI_VERSION = 5
console.log('Minimum required Amplify CLI major version: ', MINIMUM_MAJOR_AMPLIFY_CLI_VERSION)

> if (currentCLIMajorVersion >= MINIMUM_MAJOR_AMPLIFY_CLI_VERSION) {

Reviewer: shouldn't this be `<`?

> if (currentCLIMajorVersion >= MINIMUM_MAJOR_AMPLIFY_CLI_VERSION) {

Author: ```suggestion
if (currentCLIMajorVersion < MINIMUM_MAJOR_AMPLIFY_CLI_VERSION) {
```

The following is an exhaustive list of all commands along with their subcommands that are supported by Amplify CLI: 

commands                | sub-commands **(optional)**
------------------------|------------------------
`add`                     |all categories (`api`, `auth`, etc.)<br/>`codegen`<br/>`env`<br/>
`update`                  |all categories (`api`, `auth`, etc.)<br/>`env`<br/>
`remove`                  |all categories (`api`, `auth`, etc.)<br/>`env`<br/>
`push`                    |`analytics`, `api`, `auth`, `function`, `hosting`, `interactions`, `storage`, `xr`
`pull`                    |`env`<br/>
`publish`                 |-
`delete`                  |-
`checkout`                |`env`
`list`                    |`env`
`get`                     |`env`
`mock`                    |`api`, `storage`, `function`<br/>
`build`                   |`function`<br/>
`status`                  |`notifications`<br/>
`import`                  |`auth`, `storage`, `env`<br/>
`gqlcompile`              |`api`<br/>
`addgraphqldatasource`    |`api`<br/>
`statements`              |`codegen`<br/>
`types`                  |`codegen`<br/>

> *Note: Amplify CLI will throw error if multiple hook scripts with same filename exist in the hooks directory.*

Reviewer: ```suggestion
*Note: Multiple hook scripts with the same filename are not allowed*
```

Command hooks receive two paramaters, `data` and `error`. Amplify CLI passes parameters to hook scripts as a JSON string through standard input.

### **data** parameter structure
```json
{
  "amplify": { 
    "version": String,
    "environment": String,
    "command": String,
    "subCommand": String,
    "argv": [ String ]
  }
}
```

- amplify
    - version - current Amplify CLI version
    - environment - current Amplify environment
    - command - hooked Amplify CLI command. Example: `push`
    - subCommand - hooked Amplify CLI subcommand or plugin. Example `auth`, `env`. 
    - argv - list containing the arguments passed to Amplify CLI through the command line

### **error** parameter structure

**error** is `undefined` if no error is emitted. Otherwise, it has the following structure:
```json
{
  "message": String,
  "stack": String
}
```
- message - the error message emitted by Amplify CLI
- stack - the error stack emitted by Amplify CLI

### How to access command hook parameters in Node.js
```javascript
const fs = require("fs");
const parameters = JSON.parse(fs.readFileSync(0, { encoding: "utf8" }));
console.log(parameters.data, parameters.error)
```

> ### How to access command hook parameters in Bash

Author: ```suggestion
### How to access command hook parameters in Bash

First, install a JSON parser like [`jq`](https://stedolan.github.io/jq/download/).

Then, parse the parameters:
```

```bash
parameters=`cat`

> data=$(jq -r '.data' <<< "$parameters")

Reviewer: maybe add a note about installing `jq`?

error=$(jq -r '.error // empty' <<< "$parameters")
echo $data
echo $error
```

## How to conditionally stop an Amplify CLI command execution
To stop the execution of Amplify CLI, the hook scripts can exit with a non-zero exit code. 

<BlockSwitcher>

<Block name="Node.js">

```js
process.exit(1)
```

</Block>

<Block name="Bash">

```bash
exit 1
```

</Block>

</BlockSwitcher>

## Advanced command hook configurations

> You can optionally add `hooks-config.json` file in the hooks directory to configure custom scripting runtimes or manage external dependencies.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can optionally add `hooks-config.json` in `amplify/hooks` to configure custom scripting runtimes or manage external dependencies.
```

### Adding a custom scripting runtime 

> By default, Node.js and Bash are supported. To add more programming languages support, add `extensions` to a `hooks-config.json` file in the `amplify/hooks` folder.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
By default, Node.js and Bash are supported. To support additional runtimes, add `extensions` to the `hooks-config.json` file in the `amplify/hooks` folder.
```

An example showcasing python runtime support and different runtime settings based on operating system: 
```json
{
  "extensions": {
    "py": {
      "runtime": "python3"
    },
    "js": {
      "runtime": "~/.nvm/versions/node/v14.17.1/bin/node",
      "runtime_windows": "node"
    }
  }
}
```
- The keys in the `extensions` ( js, py ) are values that will be used as `extension` in the [naming convention](#how-to-name-command-hook-scripts) used when naming the hook scripts.
- `runtime` (required) - symlink (`node`, `python`, `bash`) or path to executable (`~/.nvm/versions/node/v14.17.1/bin/node`).
- `runtime_windows` (optional) - windows specific symlink or path to executable.

### Managing third-party dependencies

Packages from external package managers like `npm` can be used in command hooks scripts. In this example, we'll showcase how to install `axios` as a dependency for our Node.js hooks.

First, go to the hooks folder and install the `axios` dependency.
```
> cd amplify/hooks
> npm init

> > npm install axios

Reviewer 2: We also need to have a prebuild step in console to install hooks dependencies

```
backend:
        phases:
            preBuild:
            commands:
                - cd amplify/hooks
                - npm install axios
        frontend:
```

  description: `Execute custom scripts before, during, and after Amplify CLI commands (“amplify push”, “amplify api gql-compile”, and more).`,
};

Use Command Hooks to execute custom scripts before, during, and after Amplify CLI commands (“amplify push”, “amplify api gql-compile”, and more). This allows you to extend Amplify’s best-practice defaults to meet your organization’s specific security guidelines and operational requirements. 

## Adding a command hook
Place your custom scripts in the `amplify/hooks` directory and set the script file name to the desired command with a pre or post designation. For example `post-add-function.js` will execute the script after `amplify add function`. For more information about the script naming convention, see [How to name command hook scripts](#how-to-name-command-hook-scripts). 

For this example, let's create a hook to ensure that a minimum major Amplify CLI version is used before deployment (`amplify push`).

Let's add `pre-push.js` in the `amplify/hooks` drectory with the following contents. *Note: You need to create a `amplify/hooks` folder if your Amplify project was created prior to Amplify CLI version 5.5.0*

```js

> const fs = require("fs");
> const parameters = JSON.parse(fs.readFileSync(0, { encoding: "utf8" }));

Reviewer 3: nit: use consistent quotation

```suggestion
const fs = require('fs');
const parameters = JSON.parse(fs.readFileSync(0, { encoding: 'utf8' }));
```

`types`                  |`codegen`<br/>

*Note: Multiple hook scripts with the same filename are not allowed*

## Access parameters in hook scripts

Command hooks receive two paramaters, `data` and `error`. Amplify CLI passes parameters to hook scripts as a JSON string through standard input.

### **data** parameter structure
```json
{
  "amplify": { 
    "version": String,
    "environment": String,
    "command": String,
    "subCommand": String,
    "argv": [ String ]
  }
}
```

- amplify
    - version - current Amplify CLI version
    - environment - current Amplify environment
    - command - hooked Amplify CLI command. Example: `push`
    - subCommand - hooked Amplify CLI subcommand or plugin. Example `auth`, `env`. 
    - argv - list containing the arguments passed to Amplify CLI through the command line

### **error** parameter structure

**error** is `undefined` if no error is emitted. Otherwise, it has the following structure:
```json
{
  "message": String,
  "stack": String
}
```
- message - the error message emitted by Amplify CLI
- stack - the error stack emitted by Amplify CLI

### How to access command hook parameters in Node.js
```javascript

> const fs = require("fs");
> const parameters = JSON.parse(fs.readFileSync(0, { encoding: "utf8" }));

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
const fs = require('fs');
const parameters = JSON.parse(fs.readFileSync(0, { encoding: 'utf8' }));
```
